laughs that you may not be logged a good
point I probably didn't do that because
we haven't been recording so Molly if
you already did it the right way and you
can hit the button that would be lovely
half package managers team it's August 6
and it's a Tuesday it has a Tuesday and
it's sprint planning and Molly what he
usually call the public house
package managers weekly ok fair I'll get
this together for next week don't worry
the so this recording is the first
inaugural combination package manager
task force sprint planning along with
the usual weekly that we were having
after so that hopefully all the
information comes together into one
place and everybody gets it more
efficiently and we have a little bit you
know half hour less meetings every week
which is great we already talked about
how andrew is going to move to you back
to the original package managers perfect
concept research role but he had filled
last quarter to discover amazing new
things about how and distributed systems
might work better with our might help
package managers do their job more
efficiently effectively and happier
maybe and Steven and Molly then will be
spending more time in this in our group
helping DRI helping lead leave the work
otherwise so that Andrew has time to go
back and do the work he looks most
somebody say anything if that was not a
good summary of what happened in the
last tennis
okay cool well also I'm sure iterate a
little bit on the process for the stylet
these are combined Molly suggested that
we get a note stock together or some
sort of agenda so people who drop in on
the call will know what's going on or
what to expect and then maybe know if
they should drop in on the call at all
so we'll see about that for next week in
the meantime stick with what we have
been doing which we needed to change a
little bit anyways but we'll take a peek
which was looking at our design hub
board which is sort of Fez most of the
stuff that people are working on except
some hubs strange so we'll see how it's
going check in the review so I want to
check in the review QA column first and
go down those and just see where we're
standing if any of that needs to be
reviewed or something can be finished
off and moved to done I know the package
manager q3 okay ours are not done
because that's on me to work with Molly
and other people this week to take a
look and finish out whatever it needs to
be finished out because I think we left
those maybe not completely done and
Andrew is that your understanding also I
think it looks where we left it yeah
okay so I'm not gonna even open that one
because we know it's not done let's see
what was number 75
oh come on load it'd be great if this
would load oh yes was this one where
we're like we have to figure out where
to put this or we just leave it open
forever
do you remember enter so that one is
getting it's barely active tend to be
merged into I forget the number m d8
there you go you've already have to come
in some have oh well ok no no no stop it
that's just me okay
and luckily let's see
got it and this one is on me to review
before it closed this is it in progress
pull it's not quite ready to be revealed
okay well we can work on that together
thank you
and for anyone listening on the call I
was basically been out for too long so
I'll get my brain back and close some of
these this week see this one number 79 I
think is related to that 75 as well and
I think 76 also there's a snow this is a
six is twenty heads from and I believe
he basically open separate issue that he
can probably close that one out for
something on Friday
but there isn't quality might now hmm hi
and so Michael did his report and that's
up and available and so there's a
recording from it but I didn't see any
additional issues created out of that
work and so I think it might be worth it
thank you is the result of the like
because that fixes or these closes at
the previous one I would also like to
there's the recording week from Molly
or anyone if you're talking I can't hear
you I do not know where the recording is
for that I recorded I will find it and
send you a link
thank you some have fun do those sorry
oh okay
so after that Linkous there that one can
be closed
yay okay than they in progress anyone
want to volunteer to give an update on
their issues ah I guess I guess I'll go
cuz I'm at the top of thank you
cool so this first one I don't fit was
really me as the assignee anyway as much
as I wrote it up this should probably go
to the backlog because this is or or
it's I guess ongoing based on the work
that Sonic is doing on Mount right we
had sort of two options there which were
have like our own our stinky thing and
then use a file system so this is sort
of I guess ongoing but really tied to
the or economic is doing unmount in
terms of what's actually happening
Dominic what do you think um so I guess
jumping ahead here to kind of were on a
the current plan for that kind of stuff
is to basically get out an experimental
read-only version and get that merged
into
ipfs somewhere and then basically to get
us up to speed to where we would need or
what we would need to be able to do our
sync stuff would basically be write
support in a not super complicated way
but not in a trivial way either so that
will probably come later so yeah I would
agree that it's like in progress our
ongoing not necessarily backlog but not
anytime soon
um would you mind after this call or
during if you have a second to write an
update on that issue with what's going
on for sure thank you
yeah and then my my next issue is also
large and ongoing and links to more
issues that are large and ongoing um
which is only sort of helpful because
don't have all the god key best things
and in all of the p2p in here which is
fine there's a few PRS ongoing and I
felt some good progress last week I
think Steven you can give me the thumbs
up if I'm right I think we're really
close to closing one of them like this
close and had a meeting today about just
making sure that we're doing the right
thing for one of the other ones and
since we are that should also be it's
also sort of smooth sailing and then
we'll move on to the third PR and that
will probably not be maybe we'll get to
it this week we'll see if we're lucky
lucky lucky are these all the links
these PRS all these links yes I mean the
the most in yeah the most important one
that I'm working on is the first one
which links to more PRS the other site
the second one is is sort of back burner
for now basically tommix two other
priorities
and Hugo was gonna keep working on his
stuff but he's on an under prep ne we
haven't put him under any pressure to do
spec's work for Dominic is not just more
important
and then once either and maybe a little
bit in parallel but mostly once I'm done
with this first thing I'm going to move
on to this set of features that are down
below and so I suppose in general yeah I
mean it's it's just like getting things
not like just more coding and more is
which yeah
Stephens been very helpful thank you
is it good Stephen from your side is
that looking good or do you need
anything different or okay thank you
thank you
and no no no stop it
that's right that's why I didn't it
black so I have a number because my
brain does not remember things yeah an
update then for this - okay thank you
the title is what confuses me let's see
anything else on here D for you over
here or anything that should be in
progress or representative it isn't now
there's other stuff no no it's really
belongs here yeah that that covers most
of it what's the other stuff for fun I'm
just like I know I I spent some time
like just looking at and popping in when
the p2p has these two things but like
that's not really us yeah yeah well
found doing policy that's right we
talked about at retro last Friday making
sure that world we all think we're doing
the most important things I wish
be doing so we'll keep an eye on that
too if you feel like you're being pulled
in 50 different directions and need more
like no really drop that other stuff and
do this stuff over here we can talk
about today let's see who's up next I
think that's me oh my voice is knowing
all of a sudden so yeah so as usual this
ties into the epic underneath it
basically not too much to report here
progress is steady going I've been
posting basically like weekly updates in
here when I remember to okay and then
yeah it's just at the moment I mentioned
it earlier that we're just trying to get
this um like file system exposed on the
daemon in a read-only mode that we can
extend gradually so that we can work
towards features like one for our sink
and and other things that come up as we
need them and just I guess I should
mention there was a small setback this
week just because we were targeting one
library we wanted a target one library
but it didn't basically exist and then
it popped into existence last week and
basically we're like okay let's start
over while we still can
this seems like less work in the long
term so yeah that's it for me I play
mostly related Technic on that one
lovely anything else on the other stuff
unless that we should know tell us
nothing nothing too deep just that um
like basically the the this is some kind
of like idealistic thing closer to
reality is basically this protocol that
already exists that we're using which is
9p mm specifically the l variant now you
know make with that information what you
will cool anything else Dominic I don't
think so
things are going alright
and any questions for anyone else for
doc especially well you've been talking
to Stephen elsewhere to Molly fee of
anything or Stephen of course I should
um I should mention I guess jumping back
to what a Dean said about some of the
DNS stuff and all this back work and
anything else my work like motive at the
moment is just to kind of race title so
just take this one task and get it done
if something does seem important please
do let me know at all reprioritize is
our priority ordering like unix read
unix right windows read or is it unix
read windows unix right at the moment
it's basically going to be ipfs read
over nine p and then on the client side
it'll be translating that from nine p to
fuse does that make sense and then we'll
do right probably after after we'd know
I thought I saw some issue about the few
stuff being more annoying with windows
more than nine I mean I guess always but
so that got handled yesterday but I
didn't write about it um basically there
was an issue where the the transport
between the the client the server didn't
function properly on Windows that has
since been resolved so now we have
transport on that and things should go
as originally expected
is that experiment you just described
written in one of these issues somewhere
is an update No so I'm halfway through
something that has happened I need to
validate that and then I'll write about
it what I know that it's the time feel
free also to write you know this is what
I'm trying to do blah blah I think it's
gonna be this and then you know give us
an update when you actually have though
mmm I was ridiculous because you know as
you know it's useful also to have the
the track of what folks are thinking
about and how they were thinking about
it and then that helps let's not do the
same thing later so if it was the wrong
path gotcha yeah totally more updates
are better than less updates related I
have a ridiculous car I have a Trans Am
Firebird Trans Am more Firebirds better
than less Firebird so you can get like
everything in the world with like
Firebirds on it just absolutely
everything because clearly more is
better than less so you can think about
that with github updates where fire
hurts better than less Firebirds
as I think you know but I'm sure I don't
do I need to give you all more updates
as well let's see I have anything else
on that one questions comments
so the next milestone is the first one
or the second one
IP us read it over 9p or translating 9p
depew's you had the order right we're
going from 9 PE or were reading from
ipfs translating that to 9 P then on the
client side we're translating from 9 P
to fuse or in the case of Linux we
probably won't have to do anything at
all it should just work but that remains
to be seen
all right and when are we when are we
aiming for that exciting milestone
that's a good question
um I'd like to get read support by the
end of the the week so what that would
mean is that we have some kind of
program up that basically either it'll
be like a shell or it'll be an
implementation of fuse or something that
demonstrates that you can start an ipfs
node and read from it using this thing
that we've made that sound sensible and
I should have that probably by the end
of the week
anything else
okay let's see I think it's us now or
Andrew Andrew how's this one
progress I was off ill towards the end
of the week and had not really tackled
it much but it's the only thing on my
plate at the moment so that's four times
in the beginning in two I just keep
asking you the same thing because it's
all part of that other epic everything
you get my head together
I strongly indent helps to combine two
things together so you don't want me
twice as fun yeah I expect to get my
head together to this week but thank you
sorry
let's see summarize can't see but and
I'll skip that because that's the same
right 78
this is creeped inside it these are kind
of inside can you think thanks I design
have fun
I don't know okay also figured out later
know where is no socket sucks I'm sorry
oh okay anything else hundred besides
your new role you have been knighted
package manager researcher again I'm
still trying to work out what that the
ace look like and you have updates in
due course no race need a badge that's
all let's see
and let's say the next report should be
on bicycle races yeah
hello been away huge okay but yeah
trying to pick up isn't his racist love
holiday so PR that about clean and
promote weight which is unblocked to
when she live peter peaceful so I'll
tell you that that was when I start
looking into the performance I like if
as mad in Goa FS because mom you know
big important things to me crazy how
Modi's change our way of communicating
because I'm doing doing the like thank
you emoji that's awesome have you and
Dirk already kind of synced up or
current like brain dump of what he was
able to price out from that or is it the
live stream is sufficient for async
brainwave synchronization are we still
gonna track at swap improvements through
here or else we're not that's not you
know it's like a jerk one layer right
there or such as somebody suffering
though it should be in there
oh you're on call yay hi Dirk this is
linked to the issue some yeah I don't
know Johnny I probably did something or
didn't do something yes so just yeah
Alex one of you I'm obviously happy to
to go over what's going on with ipfs
head whenever you get up to
[Music]
hmm fascinating I'll fix that later
after this phone let's say Alex any more
updates on your end or on the fun stick
no that's well welcome back and I do
want to hear stories about Viking at
some point probably not on the skull hey
Dirk how are things besides we miss
we're missing your issue somehow oh I
know it's the sneaky new thing over here
that hold on well anyways go ahead I'll
literally find oh there it is yeah so um
you're working on figuring out how we
can improve performance so at the moment
it's a lot of just kind of like firstly
I was exploring and figuring out how it
works today so I kind of wrote up an
issue explaining that that's the first
link that um and then I suggested like
three different areas where we can look
at improving performance and I'm kind of
going back and forth mercy with Steven
has been very responsive and has also
put in some comments in there as well so
I guess this week gonna continue kind of
iterating on the ideas there and then
I'm also gonna try to get the test
finances in a state where I feel feel
confident about making changes and
measuring what they're actually having
the right impact so there's already some
good test harnesses there some
benchmarking stuff I just want to kind
of clean it up a little bit and alter it
for a specific use cases so it's lovely
questions for Dirk also thank you again
for finding that issue a movie
I'll get them
for now let's see okay um anything else
I don't want to talk about or any
questions for anybody any comments on
your like breakfast for the week
whatever we have time now cuz we made it
through our plans for the week thank you
or anyone else is on the call - um yeah
obviously
if I can't see that if Jim you're still
McCall obviously you don't know that
she's here you just I think when I hear
what's going on but if you have any
questions for the team or anyone else
feel free something that might be
interesting on the I don't actually see
Jim anymore
I see an Allen okay Jim's done and I'm
Michael burns
okay if you got are we like no we're
good you should be fine right I'm a
little bit worried that I have like a
left to me just like my constant terror
no we're good um something that might be
interesting for this group and might
overlap with what Alan is benchmark work
or is there anywhere where we're like
other than the wonderful bit swap
benchmark work that's happening where
we're running kind of regular package
manager of focused benchmarks to get a
sense of their performance feedback loop
on PRS we submit is that like a nice
useful tool that that we have configured
for ourselves are we kind of still in
the you know design phase or we talked
about having those be accessible but I
don't know what what happened to that
idea so I believe and that the bits that
were like functional enough to be
worthwhile being benchmark was the work
that Dirk was doing mostly and didn't
turn into like a repeatable ongoing
benchmark yet but the the code that he
wrote to be able to do those pentatonix
could potentially be turned in something
for the generation of particular shapes
or sizes of
trees and there's also like our index of
the different repositories that are
rather large but I worry that
let's just could be moving a lot of bits
around without necessarily like making
much difference compared to say like oh
we're just testing adding a thousand one
megabyte files rather than like how long
does it take that out of terabyte mostly
because the infrastructure suddenly gets
a little bit more difficult once you get
to that kind of size but the it sound
like right now there's we're not at the
point where we have the holistic full
package manager' path we're working on
individual pieces that make that work so
there's each one of those pieces these
benchmarks rather than the full path of
setup and then also installation via the
thing that has been said
but didn't have anyone agree disagrees
so in that case like all of the existing
kind of IQ fest benchmarks that are
benchmarking ads and gets and and all of
the awesome stuff that Alan and Jim
worked on kind of spinning back up that
kind of meets the use case of hey I can
validate that ads are getting faster
even if it's not like package manager
ads it's like ads at a small scale yeah
so that that as long as I said there's
visibility on ads of a good number of
files gonna go and which Dirk was
already documented in his issue that
there's um I forget it was polynomial
dope nodding polynomial slowdown as you
add more files and one go that was would
be good to be able to see like is this
improving and that's like so that you
don't get a slowdown from or not sure if
there's a benchmark for that I think
most of the benchmarks are fairly small
and short runs right now
I may be Molly we're getting out are you
trying to ask if we have the proper if
something needs to be developed or for
good to go in terms of like can we tell
if we're improving or not with all of
these different things we're doing that
seems like the direction you're hitting
at yeah it's like do do we have that
feedback loop we talked about being
really useful for us in order to
evaluate that we're moving in the right
direction yeah and have we set it up
such that we don't have to worry about
it anymore and it's just gonna keep
making our lives happy and give us that
information I'm not sure let's see let's
say an IT FS ad I think I don't know if
that's our reasoning something automated
or it's just whoever Allen also has a
note okay so I think this will become
more visible to people but after the
meeting later today but the benchmarks
that are qfs team is in the process of
being revived there are tests there
which do things like adding a small unit
1k file a full megabyte file a 64
megabyte file and there's tests there
for adding 100 1k megabyte files to ipfs
and so that information can be graphed
over time and that is currently
happening every night Rajesh ipfs and it
will shortly be we soon be being also
done for go ipfs there's also other
tests for adding files and which will be
relevant from package managers like
adding files but also then having them
replicated to other nodes and honestly
the the the whole idea here is that
we've got this benchmarks framework in
place has been around for a while and
any tests that you want to see in the
four that are relevant for package
managers just need to be written or
suggested in an issue on the repo and
then we can get that done and get that
added at the moment the files that are
being added are generated and they're
just random bytes
we can generate you know we could have
it generate you know a home home no more
files or bigger files whatever you need
the possibility is there
it just isn't written here so in the
benchmark school and I want to say a
couple of weeks ago and I think I
reported back that we were basically in
a place where we would wait until there
was the infrastructure in place before
putting any effort into and to push
those benchmarks because there's already
a good number they're just not being
tested against go ipfs yet and hopefully
we'll be able to see the same kind of
improvements they add performance gains
with the existing benchmarks without
necessarily adding any more benchmarks
but it'd be interesting to see that as
well just we don't have like it's not
quite ready to go yet yeah I think is
also very specific so I'm not entirely
sure if it's going to finish the
benchmarking framework so for example
one thing we found one thing I drew
notice was that when you're using an
external hard drive
we don't see the same kind of
improvement again so we we could
probably use a lot of the ipfs
benchmarks and then we might need to
write a few of our own that are
extremely specific of those kind of use
cases
so we can actually do with that using a
percent marks that go FS has an equal a
store it did store and we committed
insert arbitrary Clinton C's and we
could even had a like a bad one thing
good thing so like you can just like
spend that first and say okay like I
wanted this to have to say to you
throughput and then benchmark that and
see where the bombs are
okay great let's should let you know
hello I think the I think it's a good
idea to see these two not exist yet I
like that that's fine because we are
just getting us up and running anything
that you think might not fit in the
benchmarks tool then like at least open
an issue and let's talk about it rather
than just discount it straight away
because there may well be ways of doing
this stuff we might we control
everything that gets set up like the
there are tests there which swap out
different different muxes in J's ipfs
and and you enable or disable like SEC
IO and stuff like that for tests so we
can swap out anything if we need a data
store that is that you know has some
kind of delay or kind of bandwidth
limitation to it then we could create
one for the purpose of the test sorry I
misunderstood I'm saying we we may have
like very specific requirements with
package browsers but we can definitely
you know definitely first try to try to
get them into the benchmarking framework
and then if we need to we can do custom
stuff
Dean you around yeah yeah I'm wondering
um
any thoughts on how the the benchmarking
framework would deal with like I want to
run our sink on top of fuse kind of
things like is that
reasonably into how things are set up or
is that like totally on a different path
LT depends that I'm not sure yeah I
don't know exactly what would be
required for that I think we need to
look in to it yeah
well ideally we didn't be able to run or
retrieve a script in just like what that
VHS Runner I think we feel that's
operation potentially yeah yeah and then
you just be able to drop off scripts
into the folder and then one of the
tests would certainly just like farm out
to some bastards we could even have the
JavaScript tests run Charnas and then it
won't start especially which aren't so
sweet we go and actually give the few
stuff Pollock use is it tends to like
lock up criminals and do nasty things to
nature system so we have to be very
careful to make sure that we don't hose
the entire machine but we can probably
do it yeah lit a bare-metal machine and
we run a JavaScript script on it we can
spawn up the processes we can make
things happen to collect the results in
any any means we like it's just doing
the work to make that happen
yeah that felt to me like the most like
probably like one of the larger outliers
will have just one it's like just stay
out there
just to be clear you're saying about
running benchmarks on top of use that
right yeah right so like one of our
options is like well we can either you
know fat and fat performances is
difficult and you know doing it sort of
in one way we can may be able to like
sort of go like this and do it through
fuse and it turns up and I'm not being
faster yeah that's really useful even if
it's the other direction and we just
measure like the latency or like the
overhead from doing the fuse or like the
9p stuff
luckily though since it's just like
standard file system API is we should be
able to drop tools into it and they
should just work
[Music]
yeah and there's also like all whole
Suites of like other people's tests that
they've written for file systems that we
can just be like run those ones I got a
little cute with it before and put the
tools in ipfs so then when you run the
test suite you would just go to the
folder and run them off of the thing
I like it don't fear the hell out of it
that sounds lovely
maybe silly question for me are there
any timeline things that we need to be
aware of if we want to do all the
wonderful things you just mentioned I
don't know if somebody needs to be aware
of something or Alan out and how far
along you are in your stuff and when
like Edina and Dominic you're thinking
about or will need to be able to get
feedback on that sort of stuff I can
speak to that a little bit that I wanted
to get round to reviewing and merging
the pull requests that jim has in in
flight for the benchmarks tool today but
I didn't because getting the Jess I've
invested CFA 7 release kind of got in
the way there is a but I'm hoping to get
it done this week so that will that
would be good it will take us to a point
where it the tool is actually useful for
the NGO ipfs and then then we can maybe
start writing tests that are specific to
package managers there is a call later
today I think it's on the codes calendar
for for testing where I think Jim is
going to demo demo the graph on boards
and the work he's been doing and it will
make way more sense if you come to that
and and have a look at it yeah you can I
say yeah if you'd like if you want to
come on just to come to sit in the
background and watch then that is cool I
think but yeah I might work on it as
well so but yeah in terms of other
timelines I can't speak much more okay
so I love our team keep that in mind and
[Music]
reach out
see we've got seven minutes before some
of us need to be on another call Steven
was out of hand or waves
think that was okay cool
lovely any other questions concerns
staff um Andrew do you have like image
getting back into things but do you have
any like most important blockers on
being able to like prototype new things
no I don't believe so
it's mostly a case of working out what
like how close things should be to the
current state of IPS versus more like
dream code futuristic like what would
this look like if I get asked to do
these things in the future and and also
kind of looking to where how much of a
human the human parts of it i I've been
talking to Eric a little bit Eric comes
with at the same problem from completely
the opposite direction so it's
interesting to try an online he's
thinking with mine but from like
opposite sides of the field and try and
hit the same target in the little bit
but there's no blockers I need to
basically just call my brain out into
some docs I think and pick up and
remember everything that I was looking
at from before camp because I basically
knocked everything out
you
what else anything else
oh if we send
IRC message I know I put together a few
things that we could send I fell off the
bandwagon yesterday as we all did yeah
bandwagon is a doctor's okay have a look
at that doc can see what's wrong now we
have some up Dex some ideas for updates
on it too to make it a little bit more
useful for Molly and other folks well
he's not the only one I'm sure it was
like what
you
well I am I took notes I tried to in
between getting distracted by other
things my sons are doing a weird thing
today and but if folks I just took notes
on the package manager meeting issue it
has lots of the motifs because that's
easier to do when typing into this than
just typing into Google Docs because
Google Docs sometimes locks me from
using emojis and so folks want to take a
look at those or if you want to copy
them to wherever you want to take notes
from in nature that's fun
but once we end the meeting I'll stick
the recording there too
sounds good so you know you might see
this I think of like the like wipe on
wipe off did anyone else that was like
totally a thing in the early 90s there's
like a whole dance move that was like
this no all right
Michael Burns knows that he's
demonstrating your hip Molly I'm with
you something something about like I'm
there's like a really old I don't know
it was not a Disney movie it was not
good enough there's something about like
sharks and under the sea and car wash
yeah that's a Will Smith movie cocktail
chuckles yeah I'm sorry I was crying I
don't think it was that it's not that
cool that's too cool have you got more
Bluetooth devices connected your
computer today because it seems like
your Bluetooth headphones and microphone
they're fussing with each other you
sound like a robot do I sound like a
robot
you sound like a robot I think it's
really out of battery yes using the same
headphones
you
Allen is correct there is the white on
white off thing from Karate Kid just say
yeah that's that's not shocked him well
might also be there Adam who so I leave
my wife I greeted and things seemed
slightly better yeah yeah but if anyone
there tis but then I guess you drop
today yeah putting out the right of the
microwave
that's good choice like just try to put
it in the center of the house rather
than the edge of that I do have a big
cable running through the middle of my
kitchen and hallway though right now
it's not my deal but it's a Wi-Fi works
then that's again i've assembly problem
and other parts the house but my routers
right there i Wi-Fi mine everyone else
is just nine all right go away all end
of the meeting bye
[Music]